So back in the app.js file, we are currently only parsing the data to be a Javascript object
and
remember this will be the data format we get back.
Now as I said, I want to retrieve this description here and the temperature.
Now if I start with the description,
we see that our object we get back has some kind of weather node or a weather key here
and this again is an array then and this array also has as a first item in it, this Javascript object
which then has a property named description, which is the one I'm interested in.
Sounds difficult?
It really isn't.
I'll create a new variable called weatherData and this should be a new weather object, so this uses
this constructor
I set up here in the weather-data.js file and that's why the ordering is important and I need to import
to weather data before
app.js.
So I'm creating a new weather object and I want to pass the city name of course, the city name is something
I already extracted and then I want to access the data I get back and I'm just making this
a little bit wider so that I can see this better.
So the data here
and then as mentioned, I do have this weather key, this one here which is an array, so I need here in this
array, I need the first and only object in this case
and then I'm interested in the description.
So weather is an array and I want the first object which I access through the index 0 of course,
then I'm interested in the description of that object,
again this key here
and since this is all lowercase, I want to make it all uppercase, so I will run toUppercase on that
.
That's a function you learned throughout this course, right? With that,
I'm creating my weatherData
but of course I also need to set the temperature.
I do just by accessing the temperature field, that's the field I added to my prototype here,
it's not the _temperature, it's this temperature here
and I will set this equal to data and then the temperature is stored in the main field here and then
in the temp field, so data.main.temp.
Now in order to get it in Celsius which is the unit I want to get in order for my conversion formula
to be right,
I need to add something to this call here, to this URL, I need to add something to that
anyway since I was need to add my API key,
so let's do both. I'll first add and units equals metric and then I'll add another and sign and set app
ID,
now that's important to get this key right, app ID equals
and now your API key should be pasted into here, that's the key you get in your dashboard on
openweathermap.org.
So you paste it in here or specifically of course, I refer to the API key variable and then you paste it
in here just to have this a bit more split up and not that single long string.
So paste in your key here and with that, you should be good to go and actually retrieve the data.
With that, I can send my request and now in order to see something since we're not displaying it yet on
the page, I'll simply log the weatherData for now.
Logging is something you saw quite a bit throughout the course, didn't you,
so why not do it here. With all of that, if search for London and I open up, not that but my developer tools,
clear the console and I search for London,
you see we get back this weather object, this is not what we get back, this is what we make of the data we
get back, with the London city name, Light Rain, all uppercase and temperature being 61.66 Fahrenheit
which might be
correct.
It doesn't sound too bad at least, right?
So that's great
and now if I close this, seeing it in the console is perfect and
you did this a lot throughout this course but we actually don't want to see it in a console,
we want to change something here on our index.html page, right?
So we'll do this in the next lecture.